Ather Energy has launched the third-generation 450X electric scooter, and it comes with several notable improvements over its predecessor. The updates get carried over on the 450 Plus as well, and both Gen 3 versions will replace the Gen 2 range at showrooms. Ather has stopped producing the Gen 2 450X and is now accepting bookings for the Gen 3 version. The updates include a bigger 3.7 kWh battery pack, up from 2.9 kWh on the Gen 2 version, which improves the range by 25% and the model now claims a true range of 105 km on a single charge. The certified range has also gone up to 146 km on a single charge, making a major difference in the electric scooter. Other upgrades include bigger rearview mirrors that offer twice as much visibility as well as new tires co-developed by MRF and Ather. There's also a wider 100-section rear tire, which improves the handling of the electric offering. The user interface has also improved thanks to the new 2 GB RAM, replacing the 1 GB unit seen on the current version of the scooter. The new RAM essentially improves the computing speed of the dashboard so you can type faster, maps load faster, and you can switch between apps more seamlessly. Ather also says that the unit opens room for adding more complex functions in the future, which can be introduced via OTA updates. The 450X Gen 3 retains the same design and chassis as its predecessor, and the color options also remain the same, namely white, space grey, and mint green. You now get a couple of accessories including a side step for the pillion, along with new storage accessories.

Speaking on the launch of the 450X Gen 3, Tarun Mehta, Co-Founder & CEO of Ather Energy, said, "Ather 450 revolutionized the E2W segment in the country and showcased how electric scooters were not just better than its ICE counterparts in terms of performance but also cracked the right product specifications for the industry. The 450X Gen 2 launched in 2020, made EVs truly aspirational and exciting for the Indian market and set the benchmark with its reliable performance and dependability. With the 450X Gen 3, we have doubled down on the performance parameters and taken it to the next level to offer a thrilling experience. The Gen 3 also comes in with a bigger battery pack giving us a certified range of 146 kms and TrueRange of 105 kms offering more range to consumers looking for exciting yet reliable and consistently performing electric scooters. The 450X Gen 3 will be pivotal in growing the E2W segment in the country and taking the E2W truly mainstream as we continue to expand our footprint across the country."

In conclusion, Ather Energy has launched the new and updated third-generation 450X electric scooter priced at Rs. 1.56 lakh (ex-showroom, Bengaluru) and offers several notable improvements over its predecessor such as a bigger battery pack, improved range, larger rearview mirrors, better tires co-developed by MRF and Ather, and improved user interface with a new 2 GB RAM.